Adds Subsquid Tutorial (#53)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: builders/tutorials/subsquid.md

---
title: Using Subsquid to Index Your ContainerChain
description: Learn how to use Subsquid, a query node framework that can index both Substrate and EVM data, to process blockchain data for your Tanssi ContainerChain.
---

# Using Subsquid to Index Your ContainerChain

## Introduction {: #introduction }

> [Subsquid](https://subsquid.io){target=\_blank} is a data network that allows rapid and cost-efficient retrieval of blockchain data from 100+ chains using Subsquid’s decentralized data lake and open-source SDK. In very simple terms, Subsquid can be thought of as an ETL (extract, transform, and load) tool with a [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/){target=\_blank} server included. It enables comprehensive filtering, pagination, and even full-text search capabilities.

Author: Sure I can fix. It is prettier that does this, so each time I run prettier it replaces all of these.

> [Subsquid](https://subsquid.io){target=\_blank} is a data network that allows rapid and cost-efficient retrieval of blockchain data from 100+ chains using Subsquid’s decentralized data lake and open-source SDK. In very simple terms, Subsquid can be thought of as an ETL (extract, transform, and load) tool with a [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/){target=\_blank} server included. It enables comprehensive filtering, pagination, and even full-text search capabilities.

Reviewer: Ah yeah, I've accidentally run prettier on a couple pages instead of the table formatter, and I know it messes up the tables for me. I don't know if you can configure it to use target=_blank instead, but even then, I feel like there may be other unintended side effects from using prettier

Now we can move on to creating our Squid to index the data on our local development node.

## Create a Subsquid Project {: #create-a-subsquid-project }

Now we're going to create our Subquid project. First, we'll need to install the [Subsquid CLI](https://docs.subsquid.io/squid-cli/){target=\_blank}:

```bash
npm i -g @subsquid/cli@latest
```

To verify successful installation, you can run

```bash
sqd --version
```

Now we'll be able to use the `sqd` command to interact with our Squid project. To create our project, we're going to use the `-t` flag, which will create a project from a template. We'll be using the EVM Squid template, which is a starter project for indexing EVM chains.

You can run the following command to create an EVM Squid named `tanssi-squid`:

```bash
sqd init tanssi-squid --template evm
```

This will create a Squid with all of the necessary dependencies. You can go ahead and install the dependencies:

```bash
cd tanssi-squid && npm ci
```

Now that we have a starting point for our project, we'll need to configure our project to index ERC-20 `Transfer` events taking place on our Tanssi ContainerChain.

> ### Index ERC-20 Transfers {: #index-erc-20-transfer events}

Reviewer: I don't know if this title is much better, but it should be descriptive of what exactly is covered in the section. If you're going for an overview of the indexing part, maybe these sections should be reorganized a little bit

```
## Indexing ERC-20 Transfers with Subsquid
     <Add overview here>
### Creating a Subsquid Project
### Define Data to be Indexed
### Generate TypeScript Interfaces
### Configure the Processor
....etc., etc.
```

???+ code "schema.graphql"

    ```graphql
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/subsquid/schema.graphql'
    ```

Now we can generate the entity classes from the schema, which we'll use when we process the transfer data. This will create new classes for each entity in the `src/model/generated` directory.

```bash
sqd codegen
```

In the next step, we'll use the ERC-20 ABI to automatically generate TypeScript interface classes. Below is a generic ERC-20 standard ABI. Copy and paste it into a file named `erc20.json` in the `abi` folder at the root level of the project.

??? code "ERC-20 ABI"

    ```json
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/subsquid/erc20.json'
    ```

Next, we can use our contract's ABI to generate TypeScript interface classes. We can do this by running:

```bash
sqd typegen
```

![Run Subsquid commands](/images/builders/tutorials/subsquid/subsquid-3.png)

This will generate the related TypeScript interface classes in the `src/abi/erc20.ts` file. For this tutorial, we'll be accessing the `events` specifically.

### Configure the Processor {: #configure-the-processor}

> The `processor.ts` file tells Subsquid exactly what data you'd like to ingest. Transforming that data into the exact desired format will take place at a later step. In `processor.ts`, we'll need to indicate a data source, contract address, the event(s) to index, and a block range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `processor.ts` file tells Subsquid exactly what data you'd like to ingest. Transforming that data into the exact desired format will take place at a later step. In `processor.ts`, we'll need to indicate a data source, a contract address, the event(s) to index, and a block range.
```

Open up the `src` folder and head to the `processor.ts` file. First, we need to tell the Subsquid processor which contract we're interested in. Create a constant for the address in the following manner:

```ts
export const CONTRACT_ADDRESS = 'INSERT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS'.toLowerCase();
```

> The `.toLowerCase()` is critical because the Subsquid processor is case sensitive, and some block explorers format contract addresses with capitalization. Next, you'll see the line `export const processor = new EvmBatchProcessor()` followed by `.setDataSource`. We'll need to make a few changes here. Subsquid has [available archives for many chains](https://docs.subsquid.io/evm-indexing/supported-networks/){target=\_blank} that can speed up the data retrieval process, but it's unlikely your ContainerChain has a hosted archive already. But not to worry, Subsquid can easily get the data it needs via your ContainerChain's RPC URL. Go ahead and comment out or delete the archive line. Once done, your code should look similar to the below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.toLowerCase()` is critical because the Subsquid processor is case-sensitive, and some block explorers format contract addresses with capitalization. Next, you'll see the line `export const processor = new EvmBatchProcessor()`, followed by `.setDataSource`. We'll need to make a few changes here. Subsquid has [available archives for many chains](https://docs.subsquid.io/evm-indexing/supported-networks/){target=\_blank} that can speed up the data retrieval process, but it's unlikely your ContainerChain has a hosted archive already. But not to worry, Subsquid can easily get the data it needs via your ContainerChain's RPC URL. Go ahead and comment out or delete the archive line. Once done, your code should look similar to the below:
```

```ts

> .setDataSource({

Reviewer: format this

    chain: {
        url: assertNotNull('https://fraa-dancebox-3001-rpc.a.dancebox.tanssi.network'),
        rateLimit: 300,
    },
})
```

> The Squid Template comes with a variable for your RPC URL defined in your `.env` file. You can replace that with the RPC URL for your ContainerChain. For demonstration purposes, the RPC URL for the Demo EVM ContainerChain is hardcoded directly as shown above. If you're setting the RPC URL in your `.env`, the respective line will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Squid template comes with a variable for your RPC URL defined in your `.env` file. You can replace that with the RPC URL for your ContainerChain. For demonstration purposes, the RPC URL for the demo EVM ContainerChain is hardcoded directly, as shown above. If you're setting the RPC URL in your `.env`, the respective line will look like this:
```

```text
RPC_ENDPOINT={{ networks.dancebox.rpc_url }}
```

Now, let's define the event that we want to index by adding the following:

```ts

> .addLog({

Reviewer: format this

    address: [CONTRACT_ADDRESS],
    topic0: [erc20.events.Transfer.topic],
    transaction: true,
})
```

> The `Transfer` event is defined in `erc20.ts` which was auto-generated when `sqd typegen` was run. The import `import * as erc20 from './abi/erc20'` is already included as part of the Squid EVM template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Transfer` event is defined in `erc20.ts`, which was auto-generated when `sqd typegen` was run. The import `import * as erc20 from './abi/erc20'` is already included as part of the Squid EVM template.
```

Block range is an important value to modify to narrow the scope of the blocks you're indexing. For example, if you launched your ERC-20 at block `650000`, there is no need to query the chain before that block for transfer events. Setting an accurate block range will improve the performance of your indexer. You can set the earliest block to begin indexing in the following manner:

```ts
.setBlockRange({from: 632400,})
```

The chosen start block here corresponds to the relevant block to begin indexing on the Demo EVM ContainerChain, but you should change it to one relevant to your ContainerChain and indexer project.

> Change `setFields` section to specify the following data for our processor to ingest:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the `setFields` section to specify the following data for our processor to ingest:
```

```ts

> .setFields({

Reviewer: format this

    log: {
        topics: true,
        data: true,
    },
    transaction: {
        hash: true,
    },
})
```

We also need to add the following imports to our `processor.ts` file:

```ts
import { Store } from '@subsquid/typeorm-store';
import * as erc20 from './abi/erc20';
```

Once you've completed the prior steps, your `processor.ts` file should look similar to this:

???+ code "processor.ts"

    ```ts
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/subsquid/processor.ts'
    ```

### Transform and Save the Data {: #transform-and-save-the-data}

> While `processor.ts` determines the data being consumed, `main.ts` determines the bulk of actions related to processing and transforming that data. In the simplest terms, we are processing the data that was ingested via the Subsquid processor and inserting the desired pieces into a TypeormDatabase. For more detailed information on how Subsquid works, be sure to check out the [Subsquid Docs on Developing a Squid](https://docs.subsquid.io/basics/squid-development/){target=\_blank}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While `processor.ts` determines the data being consumed, `main.ts` determines the bulk of actions related to processing and transforming that data. In the simplest terms, we are processing the data that was ingested via the Subsquid processor and inserting the desired pieces into a TypeORM database. For more detailed information on how Subsquid works, be sure to check out the [Subsquid docs on Developing a Squid](https://docs.subsquid.io/basics/squid-development/){target=\_blank}.
```

> Our `main.ts` file is going to scan through each processed block for the transfer event and decode the transfer details, including the sender, receiver, and amount. The script also fetches account details for involved addresses and creates transfer objects with the extracted data. The script then inserts these records into a Typeorm Database enabling them to be easily queried. Let's break down the code that comprises `main.ts` in order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our `main.ts` file is going to scan through each processed block for the transfer event and decode the transfer details, including the sender, receiver, and amount. The script also fetches account details for involved addresses and creates transfer objects with the extracted data. The script then inserts these records into a Typeorm Database enabling them to be easily queried. Let's break down the code that comprises `main.ts` in order:
```
```suggestion
Our `main.ts` file is going to scan through each processed block for the `Transfer` event and decode the transfer details, including the sender, receiver, and amount. The script also fetches account details for involved addresses and creates transfer objects with the extracted data. The script then inserts these records into a TypeORM database, enabling them to be easily queried. Let's break down the code that comprises `main.ts` in order:
```

> 1. The job of `main.ts` is to run the processor and refine the collected data. In `processor.run`, the processor will iterate through all selected blocks and look for transfer event logs. Whenever it finds a transfer event, it's going to store it in an array of transfer events where it awaits further processing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The job of `main.ts` is to run the processor and refine the collected data. In `processor.run`, the processor will iterate through all selected blocks and look for `Transfer` event logs. Whenever it finds a `Transfer` event, it's going to store it in an array of transfer events where it awaits further processing
```

> 2. The `transferEvent` interface is the type of structure that stores the data extracted from the event logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The `transferEvent` interface is the type of structure that stores the data extracted from the event logs
```

> 3. `getTransfer` is a helper function that extracts and decodes ERC-20 transfer event data from a log entry. It constructs and returns a TransferEvent object, which includes details such as the transaction ID, block number, sender and receiver addresses, and the amount transferred. `getTransfer` is called at the time of storing the relevant transfer events into the array of transfers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `getTransfer` is a helper function that extracts and decodes ERC-20 `Transfer` event data from a log entry. It constructs and returns a `TransferEvent` object, which includes details such as the transaction ID, block number, sender and receiver addresses, and the amount transferred. `getTransfer` is called at the time of storing the relevant transfer events into the array of transfers
```

> 4. `processTransfers` enriches the transfer data and then inserts these records into a typeorm database using the `ctx.store` methods. The account model, while not strictly necessary, allows us to introduce another entity in the schema to demonstrate working with multiple entities in your Squid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. `processTransfers` enriches the transfer data and then inserts these records into a TypeORM database using the `ctx.store` methods. The account model, while not strictly necessary, allows us to introduce another entity in the schema to demonstrate working with multiple entities in your Squid
```

> 5. `getAccount` is a helper function that manages the retrieval and creation of account objects. Given an account ID and a map of existing accounts, it returns the corresponding account object. If the account doesn't exist in the map, it creates a new one, adds it to the map, and then returns it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. `getAccount` is a helper function that manages the retrieval and creation of account objects. Given an account ID and a map of existing accounts, it returns the corresponding account object. If the account doesn't exist in the map, it creates a new one, adds it to the map, and then returns it
```

> We'll demo a sample query a later section. You can copy and paste the below code into your `main.ts` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll demo a sample query in a later section. You can copy and paste the below code into your `main.ts` file:
```

???+ code "main.ts"

    ```ts
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/subsquid/main.ts'
    ```

Now we've taken all of the steps necessary and are ready to run our indexer!

### Run the Indexer {: #run-indexer }

To run our indexer, we're going to run a series of `sqd` commands:

> 1. Build our project

Reviewer: This is formatted oddly. The first step is indented, but the rest are not

> 1. Build our project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Build our project:
```

   ```bash
   sqd build
   ```
2. Launch the database:

   ```bash
   sqd up
   ```
3. Remove the database migration file that comes with the EVM template and generate a new one for our new database schema:

   ```bash
   sqd migration:generate
   sqd migration:apply
   ```
4. Launch the processor:

   ```bash
   sqd process
   ```

In your terminal, you should see your indexer starting to process blocks!

![Get Squid running](/images/builders/tutorials/subsquid/subsquid-4.png)

## Querying your Squid {: #querying-your-squid }

To query your squid, open up a new terminal window within your project and run the following command:

```bash
sqd serve
```

And that's it! You can now run queries against your Squid on the GraphQL playground at [http://localhost:4350/graphql](http://localhost:4350/graphql){target=\_blank}. Try crafting your own GraphQL query, or use the below one:

> ???+ code "sample-query.graphql"

Reviewer: this isn't a file in the project, is it? if it is, then yeah you can keep it like this but if it's not you can use "Example query" or whatever

    ```ts
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/subsquid/sample-query.graphql'
    ```

![Running queries in GraphQL playground](/images/builders/tutorials/subsquid/subsquid-5.png)

> ## Debugging your Squid {: #debugging-your-squid }

Reviewer: Your

> It may seem tricky at first to debug errors when building your Squid, but fortunately there are several techniques you can use to streamline this process. First and foremost, if you're facing errors with your Squid, you should enable Debug mode in your .env file by uncommenting the debug mode line. This will trigger much more verbose logging and will help you locate the source of the error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may seem tricky at first to debug errors when building your Squid, but fortunately, there are several techniques you can use to streamline this process. First and foremost, if you're facing errors with your Squid, you should enable debug mode in your `.env` file by uncommenting the debug mode line. This will trigger much more verbose logging and will help you locate the source of the error.
```

```text
# Uncommenting the below line enables debug mode
SQD_DEBUG=*
```

> You can also add logging statements directly to your `main.ts` file to indicate specific parameters like block height and more. For example, see this version of `main.ts` which has been enhanced with detailed logging:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add logging statements directly to your `main.ts` file to indicate specific parameters like block height and more. For example, see this version of `main.ts`, which has been enhanced with detailed logging:
```

> ??? code "main-with-logging.ts"

Reviewer: This would need to be the `main.ts` file if they were actually going to use it, right? so you can just leave it as `main.ts`

    ```ts
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/subsquid/main-with-logging.ts'
    ```

See the [Subsquid guide to logging](https://docs.subsquid.io/basics/logging/){target=\_blank} for more information on debug mode.

### Common Errors {: #common-errors }

> Below are some common errors you may face building a project and how you can solve them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are some common errors you may face when building a project and how you can solve them.
```

```text
Error response from daemon: driver failed programming external connectivity on endpoint my-awesome-squid-db-1
(49df671a7b0531abbb5dc5d2a4a3f5dc7e7505af89bf0ad1e5480bd1cdc61052):
Bind for 0.0.0.0:23798 failed: port is already allocated

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> This error indicates that you have another instance of Subsquid running somewhere else. You can stop that gracefully with the command `sqd down` or by pressing the Stop button next to the container in Docker Desktop.

Reviewer: is stop a UI element? If so, make it bold please

```text
Error: connect ECONNREFUSED 127.0.0.1:23798
     at createConnectionError (node:net:1634:14)
     at afterConnectMultiple (node:net:1664:40) {
     errno: -61,code: 'ECONNREFUSED',syscall: 'connect',
     address: '127.0.0.1',port: 23798}]}
```

To resolve this, run `sqd up` before you run `sqd migration:generate`

> Is your Squid error-free yet you aren't seeing any transfers detected? Make sure your log events are consistent and identical to the ones your processor is looking for. Your contract address also needs to be lowercase, which you can be assured of by defining in a fashion as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Is your Squid error-free, yet you aren't seeing any transfers detected? Make sure your log events are consistent and identical to the ones your processor is looking for. Your contract address also needs to be lowercase, which you can be assured of by defining it as follows:
```

```text

> export const CONTRACT_ADDRESS = '0x37822de108AFFdd5cDCFDaAa2E32756Da284DB85'.toLowerCase();

Reviewer: no need for contract_address to be in caps. should be lower-case and camel-case

| Transfer to Baltathar | [0x6a60a35fb594777b355da1f3922a9fcd86d11b11aa32ed6d8f361a3ed22ed373](https://tanssi-evmexplorer.netlify.app/tx/0x6a60a35fb594777b355da1f3922a9fcd86d11b11aa32ed6d8f361a3ed22ed373?network=Dancebox%20EVM%20ContainerChain){target=_blank}  |
| Transfer to Charleth  | [0x51d95ffa57899a03016b6748c7a25a7e205a7cdc916123bcd09cd47432ceb623](https://tanssi-evmexplorer.netlify.app/tx/0x51d95ffa57899a03016b6748c7a25a7e205a7cdc916123bcd09cd47432ceb623?network=Dancebox%20EVM%20ContainerChain){target=_blank}  |
|  Transfer to Dorothy  | [ 0x0569c28797b3b5dae555d01a0354444050cad282db34550205ba6ba37592cab1](https://tanssi-evmexplorer.netlify.app/tx/0x0569c28797b3b5dae555d01a0354444050cad282db34550205ba6ba37592cab1?network=Dancebox%20EVM%20ContainerChain){target=_blank} |
|   Transfer to Ethan   | [ 0x1d01484f7306c9e2e5feb225e78096ee26081a1071709519902d46b5568314d2](https://tanssi-evmexplorer.netlify.app/tx/0x1d01484f7306c9e2e5feb225e78096ee26081a1071709519902d46b5568314d2?network=Dancebox%20EVM%20ContainerChain){target=_blank} |

> In this section we'll show you how to deploy an ERC-20 to your EVM Container Chain and we'll write a quick script to fire off a series of transfers that will be picked up by our Subsquid indexer. Ensure that you have initialized an empty hardhat project via the instructions in the [Creating a Hardhat Project](/builders/interact/ethereum-api/dev-env/hardhat/#creating-a-hardhat-project){target=_blank} section of our Hardhat documentation page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we'll show you how to deploy an ERC-20 to your EVM Container Chain and we'll write a quick script to fire off a series of transfers that will be picked up by our Subsquid indexer. Ensure that you have initialized an empty Hardhat project via the instructions in the [Creating a Hardhat Project](/builders/interact/ethereum-api/dev-env/hardhat/#creating-a-hardhat-project){target=_blank} section of our Hardhat documentation page.
```

This tutorial is a step-by-step guide to building a squid to index EVM data from start to finish. It's recommended that you follow along taking each step described on your own, but you can also find a complete version of Squid built in this tutorial here.  

## Checking Prerequisites {: #checking-prerequisites }

To follow along with this tutorial, you'll need to have:

- [Docker installed](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/){target=_blank}
- [Docker Compose installed](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/){target=_blank}
- An empty Hardhat project. For step-by-step instructions, please refer to the [Creating a Hardhat Project](/builders/interact/ethereum-api/dev-env/hardhat/#creating-a-hardhat-project){target=_blank} section of our Hardhat documentation page

--8<-- 'text/common/general-js-tutorial-check.md'

> ## Deploying an ERC-20 with Hardhat {: #deploying-an-erc20-with-hardhat }

Reviewer: I had another thought I forgot to share in my initial review: This tutorial is quite long; almost half of it is the setup just to have data to index. I feel like most people looking for an indexer will have data to index. Maybe not, though. Maybe we should just provide the user with a contract address and the transfer details for the four transactions (in a table or something) on the demo container.

On the other hand, I also see the value in having this here haha so I don't really know... what do you think?

Author: I see value in either option. Because folks might not have much deployed to their ContainerChain yet I think it's important to have those steps there, but there might also be people who want to skip that and move faster. So I included a table with the deployed ERC-20 contract address and hashes for the transfers at the top in the event they are working with the Demo ContainerChain and want to skip the deployment steps.

In this section, we'll configure our Hardhat project for the Demo EVM ContainerChain, create an ERC-20 contract, and write scripts to deploy and interact with our contract.

Before we dive into creating our project, let's install a couple of dependencies that we'll need: the [Hardhat Ethers plugin](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-runner/plugins/nomicfoundation-hardhat-ethers){target=_blank} and [OpenZeppelin contracts](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/){target=_blank}. The Hardhat Ethers plugin provides a convenient way to use the [Ethers](/builders/build/eth-api/libraries/ethersjs){target=_blank} library to interact with the network. We'll use OpenZeppelin's base ERC-20 implementation to create an ERC-20. To install both of these dependencies, you can run:

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    npm install @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ethers ethers @openzeppelin/contracts
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    yarn add @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ethers ethers @openzeppelin/contracts
    ```

> !!! remember

Author: https://github.com/papermoonio/tanssi-mkdocs/pull/14

    },
  },
};
```  

### Create an ERC-20 Contract {: #create-an-erc-20-contract }

For the purposes of this tutorial, we'll be creating a simple ERC-20 contract. We'll rely on OpenZeppelin's ERC-20 base implementation. We'll start by creating a file for the contract and naming it `MyTok.sol`:

```bash
mkdir -p contracts && touch contracts/MyTok.sol
```

Now we can edit the `MyTok.sol` file to include the following contract, which will mint an initial supply of MYTOKs and allow only the owner of the contract to mint additional tokens:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.20;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/access/Ownable.sol";

contract MyTok is ERC20, Ownable {
    constructor()
        ERC20("MyToken", "MTK")
    {
        _mint(msg.sender, 50000 * 10 ** decimals());
    }

    function mint(address to, uint256 amount) public onlyOwner {
        _mint(to, amount);
    }
}
```

### Deploy an ERC-20 Contract {: #deploy-erc-20-contract }

Now that we have our contract set up, we can compile and deploy our contract.

To compile the contract, you can run:

```bash
npx hardhat compile
```

> ![Compile contracts using Hardhat](/images/builders/tutorials/subsquid/subsquid-1.png)

Author: My M2 mac doesn't play nice with the virtual box but I've changed up the colors and zoomed in.

This will generate the related TypeScript interface classes in the `src/abi/erc20.ts` file. For this tutorial, we'll be accessing the `events` specifically.

### Configure the Processor {: #configure-the-processor}  

The `processor.ts` file tells Subsquid exactly what data you'd like to ingest. Transforming that data into the exact desired format will take place at a later step. In `processor.ts`, we'll need to indicate a data source, contract address, the event(s) to index, and a block range. 

Open up the `src` folder and head to the `processor.ts` file. You'll see the line `export const processor = new EvmBatchProcessor()` followed by `.setDataSource`. We'll need to make a few changes here. Subsquid has [available archives for many chains](https://docs.subsquid.io/evm-indexing/supported-networks/){target=_blank} that can speed up the data retrieval process, but it's unlikely your containerchain has a hosted archive already. But not to worry, Subsquid can easily get the data it needs via your ContainerChain's RPC URL. Go ahead and comment out or delete the archive line. Once done, your code should look similar to the below:

```ts

>     .setDataSource({
>         // Lookup archive by the network name in Subsquid registry
>         // See https://docs.subsquid.io/evm-indexing/supported-networks/
>         chain: {
>             url: assertNotNull(process.env.RPC_ENDPOINT),
>             rateLimit: 300
>         }
>     })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.setDataSource({
  chain: {
    url: assertNotNull(
      'https://fraa-dancebox-3001-rpc.a.dancebox.tanssi.network'
    ),
    rateLimit: 300,
  },
})
```

```

You'll need to provide the RPC URL for your ContainerChain in your `.env` file. Make sure that any existing RPC URLs are removed. If you're using the Demo EVM ContainerChain, the respective line in your .env file will look like this: 

> ```

Reviewer: you can use ```text here

RPC_ENDPOINT={{ networks.dancebox.rpc_url }}
```

Of course, we need to tell the Subsquid processor which contract we're interested in. Create a constant for the address in the following manner: 

> ```

Reviewer: this should be ```ts

export const CONTRACT_ADDRESS = 'INSERT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS'.toLowerCase();

> ```

Reviewer: this should probably be mentioned before the `setDataSource` stuff

The `.toLowerCase()` is critical because the Subsquid processor is case sensitive, and some block explorers format contract addresses with capitalization. Now, let's define the event that we want to index by adding the following: 

```ts

>     .addLog({

Reviewer: you can remove all this extra spacing here and in the next few snippets

        address: [CONTRACT_ADDRESS],
        topic0: [erc20.events.Transfer.topic],

>         transaction: true,

Reviewer: what does transaction true do?

Author: I think it signifies that you want to include information about the corresponding txn like hash, gas, sender, etc. Good for debugging purposes even if you don't need that data in your model. 
If set to false then it will skip including that info.

    })
```

The `Transfer` event is defined in `erc20.ts` which was auto-generated when `sqd typegen` was run. The import `import * as erc20 from './abi/erc20'` is already included as part of the Squid EVM template. 

Block range is an important value to modify to narrow the scope of the blocks you're indexing. For example, if you launched your ERC-20 at block `650000`, there is no need to query the chain before that block for transfer events. Setting an accurate block range will improve the performance of your indexer. You can set the earliest block to begin indexing in the following manner: 

```
    .setBlockRange({from: 632400,})
```

The chosen start block here corresponds the relevant block to begin indexing on the Demo EVM ContainerChain, but you should change it to one relevant to your ContainerChain and indexer project. 

Change `setFields` section to specify the following data for our processor to ingest:

```ts
    .setFields({
        log: {
            topics: true,
            data: true,
        },
        transaction: {
            hash: true,

>         },

Reviewer: what do these configs do?

    })
```

We also need to add the following imports to our `processor.ts` file: 

```ts

> import {Store} from '@subsquid/typeorm-store'
> import * as erc20 from './abi/erc20'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import * as erc20 from './abi/erc20';
```

Reviewer: store is not used?

```

Once you've completed the prior steps, your `processor.ts` file should look similar to this:

> ??? code "View the complete script"

Reviewer: if you're going to say "should look similar to this" then I feel like the snippet should be expanded, so this can be `???+` instead

Reviewer: although you have built up/pieced together the processor.ts file changes, it almost makes more sense to name this "processor.ts" instead of "View the complete script"  just for consistency on this page

    ```ts
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/processor.ts'
    ```

> ### Transform the Data in Main.ts {: #transform-the-data-in-main.ts}  

Reviewer: Not a big fan of the file name in the header, maybe just "Transform and Save the Data" or something 🤷‍♀️

While `processor.ts` determines the data being consumed, `main.ts` determines the bulk of actions related to processing and transforming that data. In the simplest terms, we are processing the data that was ingested via the Subsquid processor and inserting the desired pieces into a TypeormDatabase. For more detailed information on how Subsquid works, be sure to check out the [Subsquid Docs on Developing a Squid](https://docs.subsquid.io/basics/squid-development/){target=_blank}

> Our `main.ts` file is going to scan through each processed block for the transfer event and decode the transfer details, including the sender, receiver, and amount. The script also fetches account details for involved addresses and creates transfer objects with the extracted data. The script then inserts these records into a Typeorm Database enabling them to be easily queried. We'll demo a sample query in the next step. You can copy and paste the below code into your `main.ts` file:

Reviewer: I think having the steps you're taking in this file broken down into numbered steps that align with numbered comments in the code snippet will be helpful as a lot is going on in this file

> ??? code "View the complete script"

Reviewer: This hasn't really been pieced together, so I would say just name this `main.ts` and expand it

    ```ts
    --8<-- 'code/tutorials/main.ts'
    ```

Now we've taken all of the steps necessary and are ready to run our indexer!

### Run the Indexer {: #run-indexer }

To run our indexer, we're going to run a series of `sqd` commands:

1. Build our project

    ```bash
    sqd build
    ```

2. Launch the database:

    ```bash
    sqd up
    ```

3. Remove the database migration file that comes with the EVM template and generate a new one for our new database schema:

    ```bash
    sqd migration:clean
    sqd migration:generate
    ```

4. Launch the processor:

    ```bash
    sqd process
    ```

In your terminal, you should see your indexer starting to process blocks!

![Get Squid running](/images/builders/tutorials/subsquid/subsquid-4.png)

## Querying your Squid {: #querying-your-squid }

To query your squid, open up a new terminal window within your project and run the following command:

```
sqd serve
```

And that's it! You can now run queries against your Squid on the the GraphQL playground at [http://localhost:4350/graphql](http://localhost:4350/graphql){target=_blank}. Try crafting your own GraphQL query, or use the below one:

> ??? code "View the sample query"

Reviewer: I'd say expand this one too since its referenced
